---
layout: post
title: Nginx
snip:  Build order
tags: nginx fedora 
---

CHAPTER 1 - THE CONCEPT
* **** []()
CHAPTER 2 - HTTP PROTOCOL
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 3 - GETTING STARTED
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 4 - REVERSE PROXY
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 5 - LOAD BALANCER
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 6 - CACHING SUBSYSTEM
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 7 - STATIC ACCESS
* **** []()
CHAPTER 8 - ACCESS CONTROL
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 9 - LOGGING SUBSYSTEM
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 10 - HTTP COMPRESSION
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
CHAPTER 11 - EXTRA
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()
* **** []()

---

### THE CONCEPT

Nginx, pronounced 'Engine-x' is a web server that's gained incredible popularity among the most highly visited websites on the internet. But it isn't fair to think of nginx as just a web server. It can do so much more -- it can server HTTP and HTTPS traffic, proxy, load balancer, HTTP cache, off-load, SSL, etc...

And why build order? Well, the build order is a nginx fun mount forms. 

---

### HTTP PROTOCOL

What's a HTTP protocol? And HTTP GET, partial GET? Conditional GET? And HTTP POST? HTTP HEAD, HTTP TRACE, HTTP OPTIONS HEADER, HTTP request methods or HTTP response status code? These are complex questions 'you must be asking yourself'.

Is it necessary learning about this? YES! Your knowledge of HTTP is extremely important!!! In simple terms, you can consider HTTP as a set of rules for transferring files. If you notice carefully while browsing a website, you will find that there are files (like images, text, video, etc.) that display in your browser directly, while others (like zip, rar, etc.) get downloaded.

For non-experts or layperson, some words can sound strange. But you don't have to worry. I will show you how Nginx works in a didactic manner so that it isn't very technical. **Can you see what is the HTTP protocol looks like?** Of course, you can! There're multiple tools at your disposal, but for now, let us seek help from your favourite browser's. For brevity, we have chosen to use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox. This is no longer a tutorial, trust me!

> **Note**: In day by day I use Google Chrome more, however, in some cases, it's more interesting to use Mozilla Firefox (it does a more thorough reading of the elements).